Final Project Proposal
================
The team
2024-11-05

## The group members:

Chenyu Jin (cj2793), Jiayi Li (jl6521), Ruiyang Wu (rw3033), Ziqi Guo
(zg2486)

## The tentative project title

Superhero Analysis Across Multi-universe: Who is your Pick?

## The motivation for this project

The superhero universe is rich with complex characters who embody a wide
range of skills, powers, and moral alignments. This project aims to
explore the attributes and dynamics of superheroes and villains, drawing
comparisons between their strengths, weaknesses, affiliations, and other
characteristics. We aim to build an interactive tool where users can
input their desired attributes, such as intelligence, strength, or
alignment, to find heroes and villains that match their preferences.
This feature will allow superhero comic fanatics to explore characters
based on personalized criteria, creating a more engaging and
customizable experience.

## The intended final products

A website that contains basic analysis of superheroesâ€™ attributes,
prediction models, project report, choose the superhero based on user
preferences.

## The anticipated data sources

We obtained data source from Kaggle about superhero power analytics
(<https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shreyasur965/super-heroes-dataset>)

## The planned analyses / visualizations / coding challenges

- Exploratory and correlation analysis:

  - Superhero feature analysis: pie charts and bar graphs of publisher,
    gender, alignment, race, heights, weights, eye color, and hair
    color.

  - Power stats analysis: bar graph of mean values for six power
    dimensions, character power distribution for various publishers,
    genders, alignment.

  - Correlation analysis: between eye color and hair color, between
    intelligence, strength, speed, durability, power, combat, and BMI.

- Prediction Model:

We will create an interactive experience for the web user, allowing them
to select their preferred characteristics for picking their own
superhero. Once they complete input of their preferred superhero data,
our prediction model (based on random forest or other machine learning
models for prediction) will generate a superhero that best matches the
user selections.

- Coding challenges:

How to deal with missing data? How to filter out the most user-matched
superhero with the accurate and validate algorithm? How to build a
user-friendly interactive interface for web users?

## The planned timeline
